---
layout: post
title: New Publication - Multi-scale seismic reliability assessment of networks by centrality-based selective recursive decomposition algorithm
date: 2021-07-10 16:30:00
description: Publication
tags: Publication NetworkReliability
categories: Paper
featured: true
related_publications: true
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

A journal paper, titled “Multi-scale seismic reliability assessment of networks by centrality-based selective recursive decomposition algorithm” {% cite lee2021multi %}, was recently published in _Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics_. The paper was co-authored by me and [Prof. Junho Song](https://systemreliability.wordpress.com/) (Seoul National University).

The permanent link via DOI number of the paper is [HERE](http://www.scopus.com/inward/record.url?scp=85102144788&partnerID=8YFLogxK). The full reference information is as follows.

<hr>

> Lee, D., & Song, J. (2021). [Multi-scale seismic reliability assessment of networks by centrality-based selective recursive decomposition algorithm](https://snu.elsevierpure.com/en/publications/multi-scale-seismic-reliability-assessment-of-networks-by-central). _Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics_. Vol. 50, 2174-2194.

<hr>

This paper proposed a new non-simulation-based algorithm to analyze the post-hazard network connectivity promptly but accurately. To this end, two algorithms were developed and utilized: (1) centrality-based selective recursive decomposition algorithm (CS-RDA), and (2) edge-betweenness algorithm. First, CS-RDA finds the most reliable path between an origin and destination (O/D) node pair, and decompose the network into subgraphs by removing the nodes in the path in order of network centrality. The O/D connectivity and its probability in subgraphs are recursively assessed until the width of bounds on the O/D connectivity converge to a certain level. In addition, a multi-scale analysis utilizing edge-betweenness algorithm enables CS-RDA to overcome the computational limitation in large-scale networks without compromising accuracy. The numerical examples including a hypothetical network and highway bridge networks in San Jose and San Diego demonstrate the performance and merits of the proposed methods.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/news/news8_1.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Flowchart of the recursive decomposition algorithm
</div>

<hr>

### Abstract

As lifeline networks such as transportation or electricity networks in modern societies are intricately interlocked, a small number of components damaged by natural or man-made disasters can have a great impact on network performance. For this reason, it is essential to assure the capability of rapid assessment of network reliability to make prompt follow-up measures. Despite the rapid development of various algorithms and computing power, the capability is still limited due to computational cost for analyzing the connectivity of a single origin and destination (O/D) node pair in large-scale networks. Therefore, this paper introduces a new algorithm utilizing network centrality, termed “centrality-based selective recursive decomposition algorithm” (CS-RDA). By preferentially decomposing the node which is most likely to belong to the min-cut identified based on the betweenness centrality, the convergence of the bounds on the O/D connectivity can be expedited significantly. This paper also introduces a new multi-scale analysis approach termed “edge-betweenness algorithm.” The algorithm groups components such that its modularity is maximized, by sequentially removing edges that have the highest level of betweenness centrality. As a result, the reliability of large-scale networks can be accurately evaluated in a short time owing to the reduced complexity of the simplified network. The proposed methods are successfully demonstrated by a hypothetical network example, the highway bridge networks in San Jose and San Diego in California, USA.

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/news/news8_2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/news/news8_3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

<hr>

### Acknowledgment

- This work is supported by a grant from Smart Civil Infrastructure Research Program funded by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (21SCIP-B146946-04).

<hr>
